---
layout: post
title:  "Low-porosity"
author: sal
categories: [ curly hair help ]
image: assets/images/products/low2.jpg
description: "Here is my break down to understanding low-porosity hair"
featured: true
hidden: true
---


Understanding your hair's porosity is important for figuring out your curly hair routine. Porosity refers to how well your hair absorbs and retains moisture. Here is my break down to understanding low-porosity hair<br>
### Testing
To test your hair's porosity, place a clean strand in room temperature water for 10 minutes. If it floats, your hair has low porosity, while sinking shows normal to high porosity. Essentially, you are testing your hair's ability to absorb and retain water, which determines its porosity. The science behind this lies in the structure of our hair's cuticles. The more open the cuticles are, the easier moisture can penetrate the hair. Low porosity hair typically has more closed cuticles compared to high porosity hair.<br><br>
### Characteristics
Since low porosity hair has tightly bound cuticles, it makes it more resistant to water and moisture penetration. There are a few common characteristics with low-porosity hair. Firstly, your hair may take a long time to dry, and when you apply water, it tends to bead up or sit on the hair's surface instead of being absorbed. Also, products may sit on your hair without fully absorbing, leading to a feeling of heaviness or greasiness. Another sign is that your hair may be prone to product buildup and appear dull.<br><br>
### Tips
Here are some tips if you have low-porosity hair:<br><br>
**Prepping Your Hair:** Before applying any products, ensure your hair is thoroughly WET. Consider using warm water or a steamer to help open up the hair cuticles and facilitate better product absorption. I know it sounds bad to use heat, but trust.<br><br>
**Lightweight Products:** Opt for lightweight, water-based products that won't weigh down your hair or create buildup. Look for leave-in conditioners, moisturizers, and styling products specifically formulated for low porosity hair.<br><br>
**Clarifying and Detoxifying:** Regularly clarify your hair to remove any product buildup and allow moisture to penetrate more effectively. Use clarifying shampoos or natural alternatives like apple cider vinegar rinses to restore your hair's natural pH balance.<br><br>
**Deep Conditioning:** Treat your hair to regular deep conditioning sessions using heat. Heat helps to open up the cuticles, allowing the deep conditioner to penetrate and moisturize your strands more effectively. Again don’t be scared of the heat.<br><br>
Avoid Heavy Oils and Butters: This has been my biggest mistake in my curly hair journey (I have low-porosity hair). Heavy oils and butters can create a barrier on low porosity hair, preventing moisture from entering. Instead, opt for lighter oils such as argan or jojoba oil, which can provide moisture without weighing down your hair.<br><br>
**Use Humectants:** Incorporate humectant-rich products into your routine (such as honey, aloe vera, or glycerin). Humectants attract moisture from the environment and help lock it into your hair.<br><br>
### Conclusion
Remember, each person's hair is unique, so it's important to experiment and find what works best for you. Adjusting your curly hair routine to accommodate low porosity hair can help unlock its true potential, leaving you with well-moisturized, defined, and healthy curls.<br>
If you have low porosity and thick hair like mine, check out some of the reviews I have on products. It may aid in your journey :) . 
