---
layout: post
title:  "High-porosity"
author: sal
categories: [ curly hair help ]
description: "Here is my break down to understanding high-porosity hair"
image: assets/images/star.jpg
featured: true
hidden: true
---
Understanding your hair's porosity is important for figuring out your curly hair routine. Porosity refers to how well your hair absorbs and retains moisture. Here is my break down to understanding high-porosity.<br>
### Testing
To test your hair's porosity, place a clean strand in room temperature water for 10 minutes. If it floats, your hair has low porosity, while sinking shows normal to high porosity. Essentially, you are testing your hair's ability to absorb and retain water, which determines its porosity. The science behind this lies in the structure of our hair's cuticles. The more open the cuticles are, the easier moisture can penetrate the hair. High porosity hair typically has more opened cuticles compared to low porosity hair.<br><br>
### Characteristics
If you think you have high porosity hair, indications to look out for include quick drying after washing, frizz and flyaways even in humid conditions, tangles and knots, and the hair's ability to quickly absorb products.<br><br>
### Tips
Here are some tips if you have high-porosity hair :<br><br>
**1.Deep conditioning:** Use moisturizing deep conditioners regularly to replenish and hydrate your hair. Look for products that contain ingredients like shea butter, glycerin, and natural oils.<br><br>
**2.Seal in moisture:** After applying leave-in conditioner or styling products, seal the moisture in your hair with an oil or butter. This will help create a barrier and reduce moisture loss.<br><br>
**3.Avoid heat styling:** High-porosity hair is more susceptible to damage from heat styling tools. Minimize the use of flat irons, curling irons, and blow dryers, or use them on lower heat settings and with a heat protectant.<br><br>
**4.Protective styles:** Opt for protective styles like braids, twists, or updos that can help minimize exposure to environmental factors and reduce moisture loss.<br><br>
**5.Avoid harsh chemicals:** High-porosity hair is already prone to damage, so it's essential to avoid harsh chemicals, including sulfates and high-pH products that can further strip away moisture.<br><br>
**6.Incorporate protein-containing products:** For high porosity hair, protein-containing products can be beneficial. They help strengthen the hair, reducing moisture loss. Use protein treatments, conditioners, or leave-in products with ingredients like hydrolyzed keratin, collagen, or wheat protein. However!! Avoid excessive use, as it can lead to protein overload and brittle hair. Follow product instructions and adjust usage based on your hair's response.<br><br>
### Conclusion
Remember, each person's hair is unique, so it's important to experiment and find what works best for you. Adjusting your curly hair routine to accommodate high porosity hair can help unlock its true potential, leaving you with well-moisturized, defined, and healthy curls.<br>
I have low porosity hair, meaning some of the products that work for me may not work for you. Hope this post helps you on your curly hair journey :)  
