---
layout: post
title:  "MIELLE : Pomegranate & Honey Mousse"
author: sal
categories: [ product, mousse ]
image: assets/images/products/mousse.jpg
description: "My review of MIELLE : Pomegranate & Honey Mousse"
featured: true
hidden: true
rating: 3
---
## Update
I have noticed that my hair is kind of getting dryer. I read that there is drying alcohol in mousse (not sure if that includes this one). I think I need to stop overusing it/ only use it occasionally. I feel bad because I just made a tik tok video about how this is a part of my new curly hair routine, but I need to make a new one. I guess this is part of the journey of curly hair. Finding things that work and don’t work take time. I am still learning…<br>

## Old Review
All these years I have been using just heavy leave-ins because I just assumed my hair could only absorb that.
Never in a million years did I expect mousse to be something that would work for my hair.
When I tell you that this absorbed into my hair so fast. <br>

When I first reviewed this product (on Tiktok) I used it with the Camille Rose honey leave-in. 
It was a good combo but I think I need to experiment more to find a better one. 
I still had frizz but I feel that could go away with a better combo.
Maybe I'll try a heavier leave-in and update this post.<br>

Now the smell. First and foremost, the scent of the Pomegranate and Honey Curl Definition Mousse is great. 
It has a fruity fragrance and is not overpowering.<br>

In terms of application, the mousse has a lightweight and creamy consistency that spreads easily through the hair. Like EASILYYYY. The mousse helps to tame frizz and flyaways, leaving the hair looking more well-defined. It provides a medium level of hold, allowing the curls to retain their natural movement without feeling stiff or crunchy.It includes ingredients such as honey, pomegranate extract, and babassu oil, which help to nourish and hydrate the hair strands, promoting softness and shine. <br>

The only down side is how sticky it was. Do not wear a tank top and apply the product. My back was so sticky when I did that. I had to take a second shower. I had to clean my desk because of the stickiness. Also, note that a little does go a long way, which was my mistake.<br>

It's worth noting that results may vary depending on hair type and texture. Some users with fine or looser curls have found that the mousse can weigh down their hair slightly, leading to a softer hold. For those with coarser or tighter curls, however, the product tends to work exceptionally well.<br>



