---
layout: post
title:  "MIELLE : Pomegranate & Honey Twisting Soufflé"
author: sal
categories: [ product, soufflé ]
image: assets/images/products/mielle.jpg
description: "My review of MIELLE : Pomegranate & Honey Twisting Soufflé"
rating: 3.75
---
The Mielle Pomegranate & Honey Twisting Soufflé is a popular styling product designed to provide definition and hold for natural hair twists and other styles. However, I use it like a leave-in, and I'm not sure if that will be bad in the long run.<br><br>

But anyway...<br>

Firstly, the standout feature of the Mielle Pomegranate & Honey Twisting Soufflé is its ingredient list. It is formulated with natural ingredients such as pomegranate extract, honey, and babassu oil.<br>

When it comes to performance, this twisting soufflé does an excellent job of providing definition and hold. The consistency is different from leave-ins, but in a good way. I actually feel like my hair is absorbing it. However, I do feel like it is over-moisturizing if it's used too often. Something to be cautious about.<br>

Also, the scent of this twisting soufflé is pleasant—a sweet and fruity fragrance.<br>

Some individuals with finer hair or looser curl patterns may find this product too heavy or oily, as it does contain moisturizing ingredients like honey and babassu oil. However, for someone like me with thick and low porosity hair, this product is great. The only downside I feel is that it can't be used alone if you want a certain level of definition. However, I have yet to find a product that can be used alone on my hair.<br>

Also, a side note for those with low porosity hair: look for products with humectants like honey and aloe vera. Humectants are beneficial for low porosity hair because they attract and retain moisture from the environment, helping to hydrate the hair.<br>

Overall, the Mielle Pomegranate & Honey Twisting Soufflé is a reliable styling product for individuals seeking definition, hold, and frizz control. I highly recommend this product to those who have hair like mine.
